##Human Activity Recognition Using Smartphones Dataset - Analysis##About the Data### Life Cycle of the Experiment-----------------------------------------------------------------------###Step1 - The ExperimentExperiment performed on 30 people Age 19-48.The performed the following activities*WALKING*WALKING_UPSTAIRS*WALKING_DOWNSTAIRS*SITTING*STANDING*LAYING###Step2 - The MesurementMeasures derived pertaining to these activities using Samsung S II*From accelerometer - 3 axial liner acceleration*From gyroscope - 3 axial angular velocity at  constant rate of 50HZ###Step3 - The Sampling*Data obtained from 70%(21 people of 30) data labelled as training*Data obtained from 30%(9 people of 30) data labelled as test###sampling window of 2.56s, that implies 2.56 * 50 Hz = 128 cycles per observationThe accelration signal gravitational components were filtered by applying filter of 0.3 Hz##Key Info derived from Readme.txt*features.txt - The list measures that were captured in X_train.txt/X_test.txt filesTest Case - Verify length of an obervation in derived from X_train.txt/X_test.txt , matches the length of second variable in the features.txt file*features_info.txt - Metadata of measures captured in features.txt file*activity_labels.txt - Links the class labels with their activity name.*X_train.txt - Training set - measures for every training subject(person)/activity*y_train.txt - Training labels - # indicating the Activity Type,description can be recieved by merging with activity_labels.txt*subject_train.txt - Person identifier for every observation in X_train.txt for activity y_train.txtTest Case - # of observations in the above 3 files must be equal.*X_test.txt - Test set - measures for every test subject(person)/activity*y_test.txt - Test labels - # indicating the Activity Type, description can be recieved by merging with activity_labels.txt##Pseudo Code1. Create a R Script with the name run_analysis.RCheck if datafile exists, if not download and unzip. If it exists continue using the existing files.2. First Task - Merging the training and the test sets to create one data set.	*Name the variables in file X_train.txt using features.txt, check length is same both files before naming.	*Name variable as 'Subject' in subject_train.txt and 'ActivityID' in y_train.txt	*Merge the files in Training Set, cbind() - subject_train.txt,y_train.txt,X_train.txt	As a prerequisite, check the # of observations in the 3 files are the same before applying cbind.	*Add a varible 'SampleType' = 'Training' for all observation.	 	*Similarly merge the files in Test Set, cbind() - subject_test.txt,y_test.txt,X_test.txt	 As a prerequisite, check the # of observations in the 3 files are the same before applying cbind.	 *Add a varible 'SampleType' = 'Test' for all observation.	 	Vertically merge(append) the above two field sets, before this step check length of observation is same in the two test.	3. Extracts only the measurements on the mean and standard deviation for each measurement.	*Extract all measures with mean, std in its name along with SampleType,Subject and Activity ID variable and create a data frame.	grep() function is used for this.	4. Uses descriptive activity names to name the activities in the data set	Merge data frame from step 3, with file activity_labels.txt on 'ActivityID', Name this new field 'Activity Name'	This is done using merge() option	The dataset is written to working directory (write.table()) into the folder - analysis_out, file name 'TrainTest_MnStd_wAct.txt'	5. Creates a second, independent tidy data set with the average of each variable for each activity and each subject. This is achieved using function ddply from library 'plyr', this file is also written into folder - analysis_out,file name 'TrainTest_Avg_ByActSub.txt'